[SDK-3544] React Native Auth0 vNext quickstart (#10131)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/native/react-native-vnext/00-login.md

---
title: Login
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add user login to a React Native application using Auth0.
budicon: 448
topics:
  - quickstarts
  - native
  - react-native
github:
  path: 00-Login-Hooks
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD002 MD012 MD041 -->

<%= include('../_includes/_getting_started', { library: 'React Native'}) %>

## Install Dependencies

> How to install the React Native Auth0 module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will install the React Native Auth0 module.
```

::: note
Please refer to the [official documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/) for additional details on React Native.
:::

### Yarn

```bash
yarn add react-native-auth0
```

::: note
For further reference on yarn, check [their official documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs).
:::

### npm

```bash
npm install react-native-auth0 --save
```

### Additional iOS step: install the module Pod

> CocoaPods is the package management tool for iOS that the React Native framework uses to install itself into your project. For the iOS native module to work with your iOS app you must first install the library Pod. If you're familiar with older React Native SDK versions, this is similar to what was called _linking a native module_. The process is now simplified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CocoaPods is the iOS package management tool the React Native framework uses to install itself into your project. For the iOS native module to work with your iOS app, first install the library Pod. If you're familiar with older React Native SDK versions, this is similar to the previous _linking a native module_. The process is now simplified:
```

Change directory into the `ios` folder and run `pod install`.

```bash
cd ios
pod install
```

> The first step in adding authentication to your application is to provide a way for your users to log in. The fastest, most secure, and most feature-rich way to do this with Auth0 is to use the hosted [login page](/hosted-pages/login).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you must provide a way for your users to log in. We recommend useing the Auth0 hosted [login page](/hosted-pages/login).
```

<div class="phone-mockup"><img src="/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-swift/login-ios.png" alt="Universal Login"></div>

## Integrate Auth0 in Your Application

### Configure Android

> Open your app's `build.gradle` file (typically at `android/app/build.gradle`) and add the following manifest placeholders. The value for `auth0Domain` should be populated from your Auth0 application settings [as configured above](#get-your-application-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your app's `build.gradle` file (typically at `android/app/build.gradle`) and add the following manifest placeholders. The value for `auth0Domain` should contain your Auth0 application settings [as configured above](#get-your-application-keys).
```

```groovy
android {
    defaultConfig {
        // Add the next line
        manifestPlaceholders = [auth0Domain: "${account.namespace}", auth0Scheme: "<%= "${applicationId}" %>"]
    }
    ...
}
```

::: note

> The `applicationId` value will be auto-replaced at runtime with the package name or ID of your application (e.g. `com.example.app`). You can change this value from the `build.gradle` file. You can also check it at the top of your `AndroidManifest.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At runtime, the `applicationId` value will automatically update with your application's package name or ID (e.g. `com.example.app`). You can change this value from the `build.gradle` file. You can also check it at the top of your `AndroidManifest.xml` file.
```

:::

### Configure iOS

In the file `ios/<YOUR PROJECT>/AppDelegate.m` add the following:

```objc
#import <React/RCTLinkingManager.h>

- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)app openURL:(NSURL *)url
            options:(NSDictionary<UIApplicationOpenURLOptionsKey, id> *)options
{
  return [RCTLinkingManager application:app openURL:url options:options];
}
```

> Next you will need to add a URLScheme using your App's bundle identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add a URLScheme using your App's bundle identifier.
```

> Inside the `ios` folder open the `Info.plist` and locate the value for `CFBundleIdentifier`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `ios` folder, open the `Info.plist` and locate the value for `CFBundleIdentifier`
```

```xml
<key>CFBundleIdentifier</key>
<string>$(PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER)</string>
```

> then below register a URL type entry using the value of `CFBundleIdentifier` as the value for the `CFBundleURLSchemes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below this value, register a URL type entry using the value of `CFBundleIdentifier` as the value for the `CFBundleURLSchemes`.
```

```xml
<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
    <dict>
        <key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
        <string>None</string>
        <key>CFBundleURLName</key>
        <string>auth0</string>
        <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
        <array>
            <string>$(PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER)</string>
        </array>
    </dict>
</array>
```

::: note
If your application was generated using the React Native CLI, the default value of `$(PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER)` dynamically matches `org.reactjs.native.example.$(PRODUCT_NAME:rfc1034identifier)`. For the sample app, this value matches `com.auth0samples`.
:::

> Take note of this value as you'll be using it to define the callback URLs below. If desired, you can change it using XCode in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note this value as you'll be using it to define the callback URLs below. If desired, you can change it using XCode in the following way:
```

For additional information please read [react native docs](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/linking).

<%= include('../../../_includes/_callback_url') %>

#### iOS callback URL

```text
{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}://${account.namespace}/ios/{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}/callback
```

Remember to replace `{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}` with your actual application's bundle identifier name.

#### Android callback URL

```text
{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://${account.namespace}/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback
```

Remember to replace `{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}` with your actual application's package name.

<%= include('../../../_includes/_logout_url') %>

#### iOS logout URL

```text
{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}://${account.namespace}/ios/{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}/callback
```

Remember to replace `{PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER}` with your actual application's bundle identifier name.

#### Android logout URL

```text
{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://${account.namespace}/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback
```

Remember to replace `{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}` with your actual application's package name.

## Add login to your app

> First, import the `useAuth0` hook and the `Auth0Provider` component from the `react-native-auth0` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import the `useAuth0` hook and the `Auth0Provider` component from the `react-native-auth0` package.
```

```js
import {useAuth0, Auth0Provider} from 'react-native-auth0';
```

> Next, wrap your application in the `Auth0Provider` component, providing your Auth0 domain and client ID values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, wrap your application in the `Auth0Provider` component, providing your Auth0 domain and Client ID values:
```

```js
const App = () => {
  return (
    <Auth0Provider domain={"${account.namespace}"} clientId={"${account.clientId}"}>
      {/* your application */}
    </Auth0Provider>
  );
};
```

Finally, present the hosted login screen using the `authorize` method from the `useAuth0` hook. See this usage example showing logging in on a button click:

```js
const LoginButton = () => {
    const {authorize} = useAuth0();

    const onPress = async () => {
        try {
            await authorize();
        } catch (e) {
            console.log(e);
        }
    };

    return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Log in" />
}
```

:::panel Checkpoint
Add a button component that calls `authorize` when clicked. Verify that you are redirected to the login page and then back to your application.
:::

## Add logout to your app

> To log the user out, redirect them to the Auth0 log out endpoint by importing and calling the `clearSession` method from the `useAuth0` hook. This will remove their session from the authorization server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log the user out, redirect them to the Auth0 log out endpoint by importing and calling the `clearSession` method from the `useAuth0` hook. This method removes their session from the authorization server.
```

See this usage example of a button that logs the user out of the app when clicked:

```js
const LogoutButton = () => {
    const {clearSession} = useAuth0();

    const onPress = async () => {
        try {
            await clearSession();
        } catch (e) {
            console.log(e);
        }
    };

    return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Log out" />
}
```

:::panel Checkpoint
Add a button that calls `clearSession` when clicked. Verify that you are logged out of the application when clicked.
:::

## Show user profile information

> The `useAuth0` hook exposes a `user` object that contains information about the authenticated user. You can use this to access user profile information about the authenticated user that has been decoded from the [ID token](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/id-tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useAuth0` hook exposes a `user` object that contains information about the authenticated user. You can use this to access decoded user profile information about the authenticated user from the [ID token](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/id-tokens).
```
